# ESP-Failure-Recognition-System-Python
Simulation system and failure pattern recognition in method of crude oil extraction by Electrosubmersible Pumping with machine learning 

One of the disadvantages of the artificial lifting of crude oil by Pumping Electrosubmersible, is the high cost of its equipment, making the detection of failures a necessity. This has motivated me to present a computational system that allows us, in the first place, simulate thirteen scenarios: a normal behavior and twelve faults, identified through the reading of amperimetric charts or daily current registers. In the simulation, real letters are used as a reference, The behaviors are extracted of that and allow emullate randomly simlilary situations. Secondly, the system identifies and classifies fault patterns using learning machine techniques, specifically Vector Support Machines with Gaussian kernels. To achieve this goal, a training, conditioning and validation process is required.  Conditioning is carried out through learning curves (number of cards used vs. percentage of hits) and variation of machine parameters: parameter C (compensation of under- and over-adjustment problems) and gamma (similarity conditions). Validation is done through four methods of success/error indicators in classification problems (simple validation, cross validation, one outside and bootstrap) and through ROC graphs. It is concluded that the use of vector support machines in non-linear problems such as this one provides very satisfactory performance.

I will soon share with you a series of videos explaining the process and the scripts (all videos are in spanish)
